TASK 3: PEDAGOGY & CONTENT DESIGN

Topic: Science: What a plant needs to grow
Subject/Strand: Environmental Activities
Grade: 2-3 (ages 7-9)


LEARNING OBJECTIVE (for parents):
By the end of the lesson, your child will be able to identify real plants and
list what they need to stay healthy (water, soil, sunlight, etc) and what they produce when they mature. 

OPENING EXPERIENCE (before any new words):
Bring two real seeds into class,  one that has been watered and kept in
sunlight, and one that has been kept dry and in a dark corner for a few days.Show them to the kids, and let them notice the clear differences.

INTRODUCING THE KEY TERMS:
After children share what they noticed, the teacher can congratulate them
and tell them about how they just discovered something important. He/She can also talk about 
how plants also have needs, and they need to be taken care of for them to grow. And he/she can also use the 
bad seed to demonstrate how plants that arent't well taken care of end up in bad shape.

CHECK-FOR-UNDERSTANDING QUESTION:
Make the kids look at both seeds and let them identify which one was well taken 
of and which one was not.

KEY INSTRUCTION IN ENGLISH AND KISWAHILI
English: "Look at the seeds and tell me which one was well taken care of."
Kiswahili: "Angalia mbegu na utambulishe ni gani iliyo tunzwa vizuri."

WHY I SEQUENCED THE LESSON THAT WAY
The lesson opens with a real comparison the children can see and observe before any vocabuary 
is introduced, so the word "needs" gets attached to something
that they have already seen for themselves.
Letting the kids describe it for themselves mean that they'll be getting a key 
term for an idea that they already understand.
Then the question acts as a clarification tool to make sure that they can 
assoiate what they understand about the seeds with the key term. 
The instruction listed in both English and Kiswahili targets
the one moment in the lesson where the kids are supposed to observe the differences 
between the seeds and come up with their own understanding about how plants work.